-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to understand
about core DevOps concepts like continuous integration
and then continuous delivery or deployment on a high level.
So to achieve this DevOps
in AWS on EKS.
So we can use a few tools like CodeCommit, CodeBuild,
and then CodePipelining AWS.
So using these things
we are going to implement continuous integration
and then continuous delivery.
So let's see the stages in release process now.
So we have source sourced it.
So in source stage we are going to
if you take any application, so we need to check
in the source code to our Watson control repository.
And then we can even send those things for peer review.
Those checked in code.
And in addition to that
we can also provide pull request process implementation.
So that's about the source stage we do it.
In build stage.
So we are going to compile the code
and build artifacts like WAR file, JAR files,
container images or even Kubernetes manifest files.
And then unit test them and then move onto the test phase.
So we will do the integration testing with other systems
in test phase and load testing, UI testing,
security testing, and then test environments, del Q,
and then staging environments.
So all come under this test phase
and then we'll have something called production phase.
So deploy to production environments and then monitor code
in production to quickly detect the errors.
So now let's see which stage belongs to which type here.
Okay, so which means like source and build stages comes
under the keyboard, most running keyboard
in the industry now, which is continuous integration.
And the next test and production phases
come under continuous delivery or continuous deployment.
So one more thing here is infrastructure as code.
If you see continuous integration,
continuous delivery, continuous deployment.
So all these are big, big buzzwords
in the industry nowadays.
Okay, so now how these are related
to our regular release process
is what this slide outlines.
Okay, so and now let's see infrastructure as code.
So whatever we have
in source, build, and then test productions.
So all of these stages
if you want to automate using AWS CloudFormation.
So you can automate that
and then just check in the templates.
And then at all these source stage, build stage, test stage,
and then production stage, all things related
to their infrastructure also can be written
in code and then available for us.
So that's about the infrastructure as code.
And next thing is continuous integration, right?
So in continuous integration
what does this mean on a high level?
So automatically kick off a new release
when new code is checked in.
So that's one thing.
And build and test that code
in a consistent, repeatable environment,
and continually have an artifact ready for deployment.
So that's the continuous integration.
So let's also see what is continuous delivery, okay?
So in continuous delivery or deployment,
automatically deploying new changes
to staging environments for testing.
So deploy to production safely
without affecting the customers
and deliver to customers faster
and increase deployment frequency
and reduce change lead time and then change failure rate.
So these are the advantages
of continuous delivery process if we implement it.
So now how this AWS developer tools
or code services you can call,
how this fit into this continuous integration
and continuous delivery pipelines, okay?
So AWS has something called CodePipeline
which will be in integration with the different AWS tools.
So example for source it is going
to use the AWS CodeCommit,
which is something like a GitHub repository.
So here we call it as CodeCommit repository
and for building.
So we usually see Jenkins
we might have seen in many places
but in AWS we can use CodeBuild
and which is a tool which provides us
to build our artifacts
and then push you to S3 buckets in AWS.
And next is testing.
Okay?
So either you can use CodeBuild plus third-party tools
to do our testing-related things, okay?
And next is deploy.
So in our case for Kubernetes
we are using CodeBuild in combination
with Kubectl to do that deployment in our use case.
So I brought them under the deploy stage here.
Okay, and next is monitoring, okay?
So from monitoring perspective you'll have
something called CloudWatch Container Insights.
So using that, we are going to do
the end-to-end monitor
of our container applications deployed on Kubernetes cluster
and also Kubernetes cluster-related components.
And then Kubernetes cluster-related resources
also will be monitored using CloudWatch container insights.
And we have a dedicated section
for CloudWatch container insights.
And then you can learn more and more about that there.
Okay?
And next thing is
how these tools will be fit in under which category.
So we are going to see that in this slide.
So continuous integration comes under CodeCommit,
CodeBuild source.
So in source and build stages we have CodeCommit
and then CodeBuild.
So we can map them
to continuous integration and CodeBuild
with Kubectl plus CloudWatch container insights
you can put them under
the continuous delivery or deployment section, okay?
So that's about on a very high level introduction
about AWS code services
and then how we are going
to achieve DevOps use cases using these things, okay?
So we'll start the hands-on activity from our next lecture.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye-bye.
Thank you.